# Single-Cell-Multi-Omics-Data-Analysis-for-BD-Rhapsody
The analysis workflow is for analysing multimodal single cell data generated using BD Rhapsody platform, with primary analysis done using BD Rhapsody analysis pipeline V2 or lower. The RSEC_Moles_per_Cells count matrix contains the gene expression data, often referred to as WTA (Whole Transcriptome Analysis) data. If sample multiplexing was used during the experiment, the standard RSEC_Moles_per_Cells matrix will contain the counts for all genes for all the cells detected in the entire batch. If AbSeq (oligo-tagged antibody for measuring the surface marker expression) were used, the RSEC_Moles_per_Cells will also contain the counts for the AbSeq. However, the matrix also includes cells of "Multiplet" and "Unassigned" category, which may be removed in case the experiment batch contains samples of different group.

Since the quantum of expression of WTA and AbSeq are different, separate count matrix should be prepared for the them, followed by Multimodal analysis as descibed in the Seurat multimodal analysis pipeline. If the samples are processed in multiple batches, scTransform normalization should be employed instead of standard log normalization, as the scTransform will also remove the batch effect (CCA algorithm), if exist. The removal of batch effect should be verified by plotting the data (tSNE) by batch.

Clustering and cell type annotation is one of the crucial point in single cell data analysis. Selection of optimum dimensions, and selection of resolution of clustering should therefore be optimised for each dataset in order to avoid false positive and/or false negative clusters. Cell types can be annotated manually using the cluster specific DE genes, and is the most accurate method of cell type annotation. CellMarkerDb and PanglaoDB are good reference for annotation of clusters. Genes with higher % of expression (pct.1 in Seurat Differential expression table) and higher Log2 fold change should be prioritised as cluster marker.
